SOURCE: NVIDIA Investor Relations — NVIDIA Announces Strategic Partnership With Lumentum to Develop State-of-the-Art Optics Technology
URL: https://investor.nvidia.com/news/press-release-details/2026/NVIDIA-Announces-Strategic-Partnership-With-Lumentum-to-Develop-State-of-the-Art-Optics-Technology/default.aspx
TIER: T2 (発行体=NVIDIA公式IRリリース)
DATE: 2026-03-02
FETCHED: 2026-09-07

NVIDIA to Invest $2 Billion in Lumentum to Grow Capacity, Advance US-Based Manufacturing and Deepen R&D Collaboration in Data Center Optics

SANTA CLARA, Calif. and SAN JOSE, Calif., March 02, 2026 -- NVIDIA today announced multiyear strategic agreements with Lumentum Holdings Inc. (NASDAQ: LITE) to accelerate innovation in advanced optics technologies, including research and development, to enable next-generation AI infrastructure and systems designs.

The nonexclusive agreement includes an NVIDIA multibillion purchase commitment and future capacity access rights for advanced laser components. In addition, NVIDIA is investing $2 billion in Lumentum to support R&D, future capacity and operations as the company builds out its U.S.-based manufacturing capabilities in a new fab.

Optical interconnect technology and package integration are critical for the continued scaling of AI factories, improving the energy efficiency and resiliency of large-scale AI networks. This expanded collaboration will draw on the strengths of NVIDIA's leadership in AI, accelerated computing and networking, and Lumentum's leadership in optics and advanced manufacturing. The investment enables Lumentum to scale its manufacturing capacity and R&D to meet the needs of future AI data centers.

"AI has reinvented computing and is driving the largest computing infrastructure buildout in history," said Jensen Huang, founder and CEO of NVIDIA. "Together with Lumentum, NVIDIA is advancing the world's most sophisticated silicon photonics to build the next generation of gigawatt-scale AI factories."

"This multiyear strategic agreement reflects our shared commitment to advancing the optics technologies that will power the next generation of AI infrastructure," said Michael Hurlston, CEO of Lumentum. "In support of this collaboration, we are also investing in a new fabrication facility to increase capacity and accelerate innovation."

[NVIDIA Forward-Looking Statements 内の記載] Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include: ... NVIDIA's reliance on third parties to manufacture, assemble, package and test NVIDIA's products; ...

[補足: 同日、CoherentにもNVIDIAが$2 billionを投資（各社$2B、合計$4B）。出典: NVIDIA/Lumentum・Coherent各リリース、CNBC/optics.org等が報道。]
